# V1 API Specifications

This is V1 of the ETH Gas Station API.


## Transaction API (`/tx/`)

The transaction API is the core of the ETH Gas Station. These endpoints contain data and calculations.

### GET **/v1/tx**

ETH Gas Station's internal information about transactions
happening on the blockchain.

* **block_number**: The current last block number viewed by this ETH Gas Station Node. This is published in order to verify data is not terribly out of sync, such as if this ETH Gas Station node has fallen behind.
* **block_time**: The mean time the Ethereum network is creating new blocks. As of this writing this should be about one every 15 seconds.

```js
{
  "success": true,
  "statistics": {
    "block_number": 4950618,
    "block_time": 15.5875706214
  }
}
```


### GET **/v1/tx/rates**

Gets the transaction rates from the API. Transactions come in four speeds from the ETH Gas Station oracle:

* **slow**: aka *safeLow*, this the lowest cost in gwei required to execute a transaction within 30 minutes.
* **standard**: transaction execution in <5 minutes
* **fast**: transaction execution in <2 minutes
* **fastest**: as fast as everyone else, as instantly as possible

Each transaction rate type will contain `wait`, the mean wait in seconds to execute a transaction at this transaction cost.

```js
{
  "success": true,
  "rates": {
    "standard": {
        "wait": 30,
        "price": 4
      },
    "slow": {
        "wait": 1512.0,
        "price": 4
      },
    "fast" : {
        "wait": 30,
        "price": 30,
    },
    "fastest": {
        "wait": 30,
        "price": 30
    }
  }
}
```

### GET **/v1/tx/rate/`:minutes`**

Returns a gwei value that will get you a transaction time
closest to that as specified in `:minutes`. This utilizes the prediction table at `/v1/tx/predictionTable` internally.

```js
{
  "success": true,
  "rates": {
    "wait": 25,
    "price": 12
  }
}
```


### GET **/v1/tx/predictionTable**

Get the ETH Gas Station's prediction table. This can be used to make your own decisions on transaction times. A truncated example of the result array is displayed below.

```js
{
  "success": true,
  "prediction_table": [{
    {
      "price": 0.0,
      "hashpower_accepting": 2,
      "tx_at_or_above": 1873,
      "pct_5m_ago": 40.0,
      "pct_mined_5m": 0.0,
      "total_seen_5m": 0,
      "pct_1h_ago": 10.0,
      "pct_mined_30m_ago": 0.0,
      "total_seen_30m_ago": 0,
      "expected_wait": 1599.27,
      "expected_time": 412.02
    }
  }]
}
```

* **price**: The price in gwei for this table entry.
* **hashpower_accepting**: Percent of last 200 blocks accepting this gas price or lower
* **tx_at_or_above**: Number of transactions in the TxPool at or above this gas price
* **pct_mined_5m_ago**: Percent of valid transactions submitted 3-5 minutes ago that have been mined.
* **pct_mined_30m_ago**: Percent of transactions submitted 20-40 minutes ago that have been mined
* **total_seen_5m_ago**: Percent of valid transactions at gas price remaining in TxPool 3-5 minutes ago.
* **total_seen_30m_ago**: Number of valid transactions at this gas price submitted 20-40 minutes ago
* **expected_wait**: Mean number of blocks at this gas price to confirm transaction
* **expected_time**: Mean number of seconds for this gas price to confirm transaction


### GET **/v1/tx/low**

Gets information on very low gas price transactions and whether or not they have
been mined.

```js
{
  "success": true,
  "tx": [
    {
      "price": 0.9,
      "id": "0x0b03e9e8f1d778b6c357211eb2ad5fa68a1507c1fe5ffee76878cb180e7a7907",
      "in_block": 5020849,
      "mined": true,
      "posted_at_block": 5020649,
    }
  ]
}
```

* **price**: The price in gwei for this table entry. Note that low-wei prices are rounded out.
* **id**: The ID for this transaction.
* **in_block**: If the transaction is mined, the block the transaction was verified in.
* **mined**: Whether or not the transaction was mined.
* **posted_at_block**: The block the EGS node was currently on when the transaction was posted.


## Guzzler API (`/guzzlers/`)

An API containing statistics about Ethereum addresses that use a lot of gas.


### GET **/v1/guzzlers**

Gets a list of addresses using the most gas seen over the last 1500 blocks.
Takes query string parameters.

```js
{
  "success": true,
  "guzzlers": [
    "to_address": "0x8d12a197cb00d4747a1fe03395095ce2a5cc6819",
    "id": "Etherdelta",
    "pct_total": 4.15
  ]
}
```

* **to_address**: The Ethereum transaction address of the guzzler.
* **id**: A plain English name attached to the contract or address, if known.
* **pct_total**: Percentage of all transactions mined over last 1500 blocks


## Reporting API (`/reports/`)

The reporting API is used by the ETH Gas Station frontend. These API calls are
useful if you are building a custom frontend to the ETH Gas Station API data.

### GET **/v1/reports/txSummary**

UI report generated over the last 1500 blocks. The report contains exchange rates
taken from CryptoCompare for fiat currencies. **As these come from a centralized
external source, use these for *guidance* only.**

```js
{
  "success": true,
  "report": {
    "cheapest_tx_price": 0,
    "cheapest_tx_id": "0xeb6f22f47b723258a16be5bb7b84d919b1c6a76e083479a633ed904a5b52adf8",
    "expensive_tx_gwei": 36498000,
    "expensive_tx_id": "0x9af43fdcaf5f988a7067c206d12296a5be90d0a02990287e44d5bb613b788fdc",
    "empty_blocks": 8,
    "price_gwei": 1,
    "price_cny": 2160,
    "price_eur": 275,
    "price_gbp": 248,
    "price_usd": 326,
    "full_blocks": 2423,
    "latest_block_number": 4368500,
    "median_delay_blocks": 3,
    "median_delay_time_sec": 97,
    "mined_gas_price_max": 107791,
    "mined_gas_price_median": 21,
    "mined_gas_price_min": 0,
    "total_blocks_included": 2992,
    "total_tx_lt1": 11061,
    "total_tx_gt1_lte4": 20255,
    "total_tx_gt4_lte20": 55249,
    "total_tx_gt20_lte50": 222437,
    "total_tx_gte50": 9139,
    "total_tx_transfer": 161641,
    "total_tx": 329015
  }
}
```

* **cheapest_tx_fee**: The fee in gwei for the cheapest transaction
* **cheapest_tx_id**: The transaction ID for the cheapest transaction
* **expensive_tx_price**: The fee in gwei for the most expensive transaction
* **expensive_tx_id**: The transaction ID for the most expensive transaction
* **empty_blocks**: Number of blocks in the sample without any transactions
* **price_cny**: The ETH/CNY exchange rate from CryptoCompare.
* **price_eur**: The ETH/EUR exchange rate from CryptoCompare.
* **price_usd**: The ETH/USD exchange rate from CryptoCompare.
* **full_blocks**: The number of blocks in which `(gas_used / gas_limit) >= 95%`
* **latest_block_number**: Block at which the report was run
* **median_delay_blocks**: Median confirmation time sample in blocks
* **median_delay_time_sec**: Median confirmation time sample in seconds
* **mined_gas_price_max**: The maximum mined gas price in the sample (in gwei)
* **mined_gas_price_median**: The median mined gas price in the sample (in gwei)
* **mined_gas_price_min**: The minimum mined gas price in the sample (in gwei)
* **total_blocks_included**: The total number of blocks included in the report
* **total_tx**: The total number of transactions in this sample
* **total_tx_lt1**: The total number of transactions with a gas price of `x <= 1` gwei,
* **total_tx_gt1_lte4**: The total number of transactions with a gas price of `1 < x <=4` gwei.
* **total_tx_gt4_lte20**: The total number of transactions with a gas price of `4 < x <= 20` gwei.
* **total_tx_gt20_lte50**: The total number of transactions with a gas price of `20 < x <= 50` gwei
* **total_tx_gte50** : The total number of transactions with a gas price of `x >= 50` gwei

